
# DataKit Master Configuration
---

The DataKit master configuration is used to configure the running behavior of the DataKit itself.

=== "host deployment"

    Its directory is generally located in:
    
    - Linux/Mac: `/usr/local/datakit/conf.d/datakit.conf`
    - Windows: `C:\Program Files\datakit\conf.d\datakit.conf`

=== "Kubernates"

    When DaemonSet is installed, **the DataKit does not actually load the configuration**, although this file exists in the corresponding directory. These matches are generated by [injecting environment variables](datakit-daemonset-deploy.md#using-k8-env). For all of the following configurations, you can find the [corresponding environment variable](datakit-daemonset-deploy.md#using-k8-env) configuration in the Kubernates deployment documentation.

## Configuration of HTTP Service {#config-http-server}

DataKit opens an HTTP service to receive external data or provide basic data services to the outside world.

=== "datakit.conf"

    ### Modify the HTTP Service Address {#update-http-server-host}
    
    The default HTTP service address is `localhost:9529`, and if port 9529 is occupied, or you want to access the HTTP service of DataKit from outside (for example, you want to receive [RUM](rum.md) or [Tracing](datakit-tracing.md) data), you can modify it to:
    
    ```toml
    [http_api]
       listen = "0.0.0.0:<other-port>"
    ```
    
    #### Using Unix Domain Socket {#uds}
    
    Datakit supports UNIX domain sockets access. Open it as follows: The `listen` field is configured to <b>the full path to a file that does not exist</b>. Here, for example, sock` can be any file name.
    ```toml
    [http_api]
       listen = "/tmp/datakit.sock"
    ```
    After the configuration is complete, you can use the `curl` command to test whether the configuration is successful: `sudo curl --no-buffer -XGET --unix-socket /tmp/datakit.sock http:/localhost/v1/ping`. For more information on the test commands for `curl`, see [here](https://superuser.com/a/925610).
    
    ### HTTP Request Frequency Control {#set-http-api-limit}
    
    As DataKit needs to receive a large number of external data writes, in order to avoid causing huge overhead to the host node, the following HTTP configuration can be modified (it is not turned on by default):
    
    ```toml
    [http_api]
      request_rate_limit = 1000.0 # Limit ingeach HTTP API to receive only 1000 requests per second
    ```
    
    ### Other Settings {#http-other-settings}
    
    ```toml
    [http_api]
        close_idle_connection = true # Close idle connections
        timeout = "30s"              # Set server-side HTTP timeout
    ```

=== "Kubernates"

    See [here](datakit-daemonset-deploy.md#env-http-api).

## Global Tag Modification  {#set-global-tag}

[:octicons-tag-24: Version-1.4.6](changelog.md#cl-1.4.6)

DataKit allows you to configure global labels for all the data it collects. Global labels fall into two categories:

- Host class global variable: The collected data is closely related to the current host, such as CPU/memory and other metric data.
- Environment class global variable: The collected data comes from a public entity, such as MySQL/Redis. These collections are generally elected, so the host-related global tag will not be carried on these data.

```toml
[global_host_tags]
  ip         = "__datakit_ip"
  host       = "__datakit_hostname"

[global_election_tags]
  project = "my-project"
  cluster = "my-cluster"
```

When adding a global Tag, there are several places to pay attention to:

- These global Tag values are available using several variables currently supported by DataKit (both the double underscore（`__`）prefix and `$` are available):
  - `__datakit_ip/$datakit_ip`: The tag value is set to the first master network card IP that the DataKit obtains.
  - `__datakit_hostname/$datakit_hostname`: Tag value is set to the hostname of the DataKit.

- Do not have any metric Field in the global Tag because of the [DataKit data transmission protocol restrictions](apis.md#lineproto-limitation), otherwise the data processing will fail due to protocol violation. See the field list of specific collectors for details. Of course, don't add too many tags, and there are limits to the length of Key and Value of each Tag.

- If the collected data has a Tag with the same name, the DataKit will not append the global Tag configured here.
- Even if `global_host_tags` does not configure any global tags, DataKit will still try to add a global Tag with `host=$HOSTNAME` on all the data.

### Settings of Global Tag in Remote Collection {#notice-global-tags}

Because DataKit will append the label  `host=<host name where DataKit is located>` to all collected data by default, but this default appended `host` will cause trouble in some cases.

Take MySQL as an example, if MySQL is not on the DataKit machine, but you want this `host` tag to be the real hostname of MySQL being collected (or other identification fields of the cloud database), not the hostname of DataKit.

In this case, we can bypass the global tag on DataKit in two ways:

- In the specific collector, there is generally the following configuration, and we can add a Tag here. For example, if we don't want DataKit to add the Tag `host=xxx` by default, we can overwrite this Tag here, taking MySQL as an example:

```toml
[[inputs.mysql.tags]]
  host = "real-mysql-host-name" 
```

- When you [push data to the DataKit as an HTTP API](apis.md#api-v1-write), you can mask all global tags with the API parameter `ignore_global_tags`.

???+ tip

    Since [1.4.20](changelog.md#cl-1.4.20), DataKit defaults to fields such as IP/host of the collected service as `host`, so this problem will be improved after upgrading. It is recommended that you upgrade to this version to avoid this problem.

## DataKit Own Running Log Configuration {#logging-config}

DataKit has two own logs, one is its own run log（*/var/log/datakit/log*）and the other is HTTP Access log（*/var/log/datakit/gin.log*）.

The default logging level for DataKit is `info`. Edit `datakit.conf` to modify the log level and slice size:

```toml
[logging]
  level = "debug" # correct info to debug
  rotate = 32     # each log slice is 32MB
```

- `level`: When you set it to `debug`, you can see more logs (currently only the `debug/info` levels are supported).
- `rotate`: DataKit slices the log by default. The default slice size is 32MB, and there are 6 slices in total (1 current write slice plus 5 cut slices, and the number of slices is not yet supported). If you dislike that DataKit logs take up too much disk space (maximum 32 x 6 = 192MB), reduce the `rotate` size (for example, change it to 4 in MB). HTTP access logs are automatically cut in the same way.

## Advanced Configuration {#advance-config}

The following content involves some advanced configuration. If you are not sure about the configuration, it is recommended to consult our technical experts.

### IO Module Parameter Adjustment {#io-tuning}

[:octicons-tag-24: Version-1.4.8](changelog.md#cl-1.4.8) ·
[:octicons-beaker-24: Experimental](index.md#experimental)

=== "datakit.conf"

    In some cases, the data collection amount of DataKit is very large. If the network bandwidth is limited, some data collection may be interrupted or discarded. You can mitigate this problem by configuring some parameters of the io module:
    
    ```toml
    [io]
      feed_chan_size = 4096   # length of data processing queue (a job typically has multiple points)
      max_cache_count = 512   # data bulk sending points, beyond which sending is triggered in the cache
      flush_interval = "10s"  # threshold for sending data at least once every 10s
    ```
    
    See [corresponding description in k8s](datakit-daemonset-deploy.md#env-io) for blocking mode

=== "Kubernetes"

    See [here](datakit-daemonset-deploy.md#env-io)


#### IO Disk Cache {#io-disk-cache}

When DataKit fails to send data, disk cache can be turned on in order not to lose critical data. The purpose of disk cache is to temporarily store the data that failed to be sent to the disk, and then send the data out when conditions permit.

=== "datakit.conf"

    ```toml
    [io]
      enable_cache = true   # turn on disk caching
      cache_max_size_gb = 5 # specify a disk size of 5GB
    ```

=== "Kubernetes"

    See [here](datakit-daemonset-deploy.md#env-io)

---

???+ attention

    At present, the cache of time series data is not supported, and all other data support disk cache with sending failure. In addition, due to the limited disk size, if the send fails all the time, causing the disk to exceed the upper limit, data will still be lost (older data will be discarded first).

### cgroup Limit  {#enable-cgroup}

Because the amount of data processed on the DataKit cannot be estimated, if the resources consumed by the DataKit are not physically limited, it may consume a large amount of resources of the node where it is located. Here we can limit it with the help of cgroup, which has the following configuration in *datakit.conf*:

```toml
[cgroup]
  path = "/datakit" # cgroup restricts directories, such as /sys/fs/cgroup/memory/datakit, /sys/fs/cgroup/cpu/datakit

  # Maximum CPU utilization allowed (percentile)
  cpu_max = 20.0

  # Allow minimum CPU utilization (percentile)
  cpu_min = 5.0

  # Allows 4GB of memory (memory + swap) by default
  # If set to 0 or negative, memory limits are not enabled
  mem_max_mb = 4096 
```

If the DataKit exceeds the memory limit, it will be forcibly killed by the operating system. The following results can be seen through the command, and the service needs to [be started manually] (datakit-service-how-to.md#when-service-failed) at this time.

```shell
$ systemctl status datakit 
● datakit.service - Collects data and upload it to DataFlux.
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/datakit.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: activating (auto-restart) (Result: signal) since Fri 2022-02-30 16:39:25 CST; 1min 40s ago
    Process: 3474282 ExecStart=/usr/local/datakit/datakit (code=killed, signal=KILL)
   Main PID: 3474282 (code=killed, signal=KILL)
```

???+ attention

    - cgroup restriction will only be turned on by default during [host installation](datakit-install.md).
    - cgourp only supports CPU usage and memory usage (mem + swap) controls, and only supports Linux operating systems.

### Election Configuration {#election}

See [here](election.md#config)

### Managing DataKit Configuration with Git {#using-gitrepo}

Because the configuration of various collectors in DataKit is text type, it takes a lot of energy to modify and take effect one by one. Here we can use Git to manage these configurations, with the following advantages:

- Automatically synchronize the latest configuration from the remote Git repository and take effect automatically.
- Git has its own version management, which can effectively track the change history of various configurations.

When you install DataKit（supported by [DaemonSet installation](datakit-daemonset-deploy.md) and [host installation](datakit-install.md#env-gitrepo)), you can specify the Git configuration repository.

#### Manually Configure Git Administration {#setup-gitrepo}

Datakit supports the use of git to manage collector configurations, Pipeline, and Python scripts. In *datakit.conf*, find the *git_repos* location and edit the following:

```toml
[git_repos]
  pull_interval = "1m" # Synchronize configuration interval, that is, synchronize once every 1 minute

  [[git_repos.repo]]
    enable = false   # Do not enable the repo

    ###########################################
    # Three protocols supported by Git address: http/git/ssh
    ###########################################
    url = "http://username:password@github.com/path/to/repository.git"

    # The following two protocols (git/ssh) need to be configured with key-path and key-password
    # url = "git@github.com:path/to/repository.git"
    # url = "ssh://git@github.com:9000/path/to/repository.git"
    # ssh_private_key_path = "/Users/username/.ssh/id_rsa"
    # ssh_private_key_password = "<YOUR-PASSSWORD>"

    branch = "master" # Specify git branch
```

Note: After Git synchronization is turned on, the collector configuration in the original `conf.d` directory will no longer take effect (except *datakit.conf* ).

#### Applying Git-managed Pipeline Sample {#gitrepo-example}

We can add Pipeline to the collector configuration to cut the logs of related services. When Git synchronization is turned on, both **the Pipeline that comes with DataKit and the Pipeline synchronized by Git can be used**. In the configuration of [Nginx collector](nginx.md), a configuration example of pipeline.

```toml
[[inputs.nginx]]
    ...
    [inputs.nginx.log]
    ...
    pipeline = "my-nginx.p" # Where to load my-nginx.p, see the "constraint" description below
```

#### Git-managed Usage Constraints {#gitrepo-limitation}

The following constraints must be followed when using Git:

- Create a new `conf.d` folder in git repo, and put the DataKit collector configuration below
- Create a new `pipeline` folder in git repo, and place the Pipeline file below
- Create a new `python.d` folder in git repo, and place the Python script file below

The following is illustrated by legend:

```
datakit root directory
├── conf.d
├── data
├── pipeline # top-level Pipeline script
├── python.d # top-level python.d script
├── externals
└── gitrepos
    ├── repo-1  # warehouse 1
    │   ├── conf.d    # dedicated to store collector configuration
    │   ├── pipeline  # dedicated to storing pipeline cutting scripts
    │   │   └── my-nginx.p # legal pipeline script
    │   │   └── 123     # illegal Pipeline subdirectory, and the files under it will not take effect
    │   │       └── some-invalid.p
    │   └── python.d    store python.d scripts
    │       └── core
    └── repo-2  # warehouse 2
        ├── ...
```

The lookup priority is defined as follows:

1. Find the specified file names one by one in the *git_repos* order configured in *datakit.conf* (it is an array that can configure multiple Git repositories), and return the first one if found. For example, look for *my-nginx.p*. If it is found under *pipeline* in the first repository directory, it will prevail. **Even if there is *my-nginx.p* with the same name in the second repository, it will not be selected.**。

2. If not found in *git_repos* , go to the *<Datakit Installation Directory>/pipeline* directory for the Pipeline script, or go to the *<Datakit Installation Directory>/python.d* directory for the Python script.

### Set the Maximum Value of Open File Descriptor {#enable-max-fd}

In a Linux environment, you can configure the ulimit entry in the Datakit main configuration file to set the maximum number of open files for Datakit, as follows:

```toml
ulimit = 64000
```

ulimit is configured to 64000 by default.

## FAQ {#faq}

### cgroup Setup Failed {#cgoup-fail}

Sometimes enabling cgroup fails, and errors like the following are reported in `Basic Info` of [DataKit Monitor](datakit-monitor.md):

```
write /sys/fs/cgroup/memory/datakit/memory.limit_in_bytes: invalid argument
```

At this point, you need to manually delete the existing cgroup rule base, and then [restart the DataKit service](datakit-service-how-to.md#manage-service).

```shell
sudo cgdelete memory:/datakit
```

> `cgdelete` may require additional installation kits:
> 
> - Ubuntu: `apt-get install libcgroup-tools`
> - CentOS: `yum install libcgroup-tools`

### Cgroup CPU Utilization Rate Description {#cgroup-how}

CPU utilization is on a percentage basis (= = maximum 100.0 = =). For an 8-core CPU, if the limit `cpu_max` is 20.0 (that is, 20%), the maximum CPU consumption of DataKit, = =, will be displayed as about 160% on the top command = =. The same applies to`cpu_min`.

## Extended Readings {#more-reading}

- [DataKit host installation](datakit-install.md)
- [DataKit DaemonSet installation](datakit-daemonset-deploy.md)
- [DataKit line protocol filter](datakit-filter.md)
