
# Host Installation
---

This article describes the basic installation of DataKit.

## Register/log in to Guance Cloud {#login-guance}

The browser visits the [Guance Cloud registration](https://auth.guance.com/redirectpage/register){:target="_blank"} portal, fills in the corresponding information, and then [logs in to Guance Cloud](https://console.guance.com/pageloading/login){:target="_blank"}.

## Get the Installation Command {#get-install}

Log in to the workspace, click "Integration" on the left and select "Datakit" at the top, and you can see the installation commands of various platforms.

> Note that the following Linux/Mac/Windows installer can automatically identify the hardware platform (arm/x86, 32bit/64bit) without making a hardware platform selection.

=== "Linux/macOS"

    The installation command supports `bash` and `ash`([:octicons-tag-24: Version-1.14.0](changelog.md#cl-1.14.0)), and the command is roughly as follows:

    - `bash`
    
    ```shell
{{ InstallCmd 4 (.WithPlatform "unix") }} 
    ```
    
    - `ash`

    ```shell
{{ InstallCmd 4 (.WithPlatform "unix") (.WithShell "ash") }}
    ```

    After the installation is completed, you will see a prompt that the installation is successful at the terminal.

=== "Windows"

    Installation on Windows requires a Powershell command line installation and must run Powershell as an administrator. Press the Windows key, enter powershell to see the pop-up powershell icon, and right-click and select "Run as an administrator".
    
    ```powershell
{{ InstallCmd 4 (.WithPlatform "windows") }} 
    ```

### Install DataKit lite {#lite-install}

You can specify the environment variable `DK_LITE` to install DataKit lite ([:octicons-tag-24: Version-1.14.0](changelog.md#cl-1.14.0)):

=== "Linux/macOS"

    ```shell
{{ InstallCmd 4 (.WithPlatform "unix") (.WithEnvs "DK_LITE" "1" ) }}
    ```

=== "Windows"

    ```powershell
{{ InstallCmd 4 (.WithPlatform "windows") (.WithEnvs "DK_LITE" "1" ) }}
    ```

DataKit lite only contains collectors as below: 

| Collector Name                            | Description                                                                           |
| ------------------------------------- | -----------------------------------------------                                |
| [cpu](cpu.md)                         | Collect the CPU usage of the host                                                        |
| [disk](disk.md)                       | Collect disk occupancy                                                               |
| [diskio](diskio.md)                   | Collect the disk IO status of the host                                                         |
| [mem](mem.md)                         | Collect the memory usage of the host                                                         |
| [swap](swap.md)                       | Collect Swap memory usage                                                         |
| [system](system.md)                   | Collect the load of host operating system                                                           |
| [net](net.md)                         | Collect host network traffic                                                           |
| [host_processes](host_processes.md)   | Collect the list of resident (surviving for more than 10min) processes on the host                                      |
| [hostobject](hostobject.md)           | Collect basic information of host computer (such as operating system information, hardware information, etc.)                                 |
| [Datakit（`dk`）](../integrations/dk.md)  | Collect Datakit running metrics                                                |
| [RUM (`rum`)](../integrations/rum.md)    |  Collect user access monitoring data                                               |
| [Net dialtesting (`dialtesting`)](../integrations/dialtesting.md)           |  Collect the data generated by dialing test                                             |
| [Prom (`prom`)](../integrations/prom.md)  | Collect data exposed by Prometheus Exporters                          |

### Install Specific Version {#version-install}

We can install specific datakit version, for example 1.2.3:

```shell
{{ InstallCmd 0 (.WithPlatform "unix") (.WithVersion "-1.2.3") }}
```

And the same as Windows:

```powershell
{{ InstallCmd 0 (.WithPlatform "windows") (.WithVersion "-1.2.3") }}
```

## Additional Supported Installation Variable {#extra-envs}

If you need to define some DataKit configuration during the installation phase, you can add environment variables to the installation command, just append them before `DK_DATAWAY` For example, append the `DK_NAMESPACE` setting:

=== "Linux/macOS"

    ```shell
{{ InstallCmd 4 (.WithPlatform "unix") (.WithEnvs "DK_NAMESPACE" "<namespace>" ) }}
    ```
    
=== "Windows"

    ```powershell
{{ InstallCmd 4 (.WithPlatform "windows") (.WithEnvs "DK_NAMESPACE" "<namespace>" ) }}
    ```
---

The setting format of the two environment variables is:

```shell
# Windows: Multiple environment variables are divided by semicolons
$env:NAME1="value1"; $env:Name2="value2"

# Linux/Mac: Multiple environment variables are divided by spaces
NAME1="value1" NAME2="value2"
```

The environment variables supported by the installation script are as follows (supported by the whole platform).

???+ attention

    These environment variable settings are not supported for [full offline installation](datakit-offline-install.md#offline). However, these environment variables can be set by [proxy](datakit-offline-install.md#with-datakit) and [setting local installation address](datakit-offline-install.md#with-nginx).

### Most Commonly Used Environment Variables {#common-envs}

- `DK_DATAWAY`: Specify the DataWay address, and the DataKit installation command has been brought by default
- `DK_GLOBAL_TAGS`: Deprecated, DK_GLOBAL_HOST_TAGS instead
- `DK_GLOBAL_HOST_TAGS`: Support the installation phase to fill in the global host tag, format example: `host=__datakit_hostname,host_ip=__datakit_ip` (multiple tags are separated by English commas)
- `DK_GLOBAL_ELECTION_TAGS`: Support filling in the global election tag during the installation phase，format example: `project=my-porject,cluster=my-cluster` (support filling in the global election tag during the installation phase)
- `DK_DEF_INPUTS`: List of collector names opened by default, format example: `cpu,mem,disk`. We can also ban some default inputs by putting a `-` prefix at input name, such as `-cpu,-mem,-disk`. But if mixed them, such as `cpu,mem,-disk,-system`, we only accept the banned list, the effect is only `disk` and `system` disabled, but others enabled.
- `DK_CLOUD_PROVIDER`: Support filling in cloud vendors during installation (`aliyun/aws/tencent/hwcloud/azure`)
- `DK_LITE`： When installing the simplified DataKit, you can set this variable to `1`. ([:octicons-tag-24: Version-1.14.0](changelog.md#cl-1.14.0))

???+ tip "Disable all default inputs[:octicons-tag-24: Version-1.5.5](changelog.md#cl-1.5.5)"

    We can set `DK_DEF_INPUTS` to `-` to disable all default inputs:

    ```shell
    DK_DEF_INPUTS="-" \
    DK_DATAWAY=https://openway.guance.com?token=<TOKEN> \
    bash -c "$(curl -L https://static.guance.com/datakit/install.sh)"
    ```

    Beside, if Datakit has been installed before, we must delete all default inputs *.conf* files manually. During installing, Datakit able to add new inputs configure, not cant delete them.

### On DataKit's Own Log  {#env-logging}

- `DK_LOG_LEVEL`: Optional info/debug
- `DK_LOG`: If changed to stdout, the log will not be written to the file, but will be output by the terminal.
- `DK_GIN_LOG`: If changed to stdout, the log will not be written to the file, but will be output by the terminal.

### On DataKit pprof  {#env-pprof}

- `DK_ENABLE_PPROF`(deprecated): whether to turn on `pprof`
- `DK_PPROF_LISTEN`: `pprof` service listening address

> [:octicons-tag-24: Version-1.9.2](changelog.md#cl-1.9.2) enabled pprof by default.

### On DataKit Election  {#env-election}

- `DK_ENABLE_ELECTION`: Open the election, not by default. If you need to open it, give any non-empty string value to the environment variable. (eg `True`/`False`)
- `DK_NAMESPACE`: Supports namespaces specified during installation (for election)

### On HTTP/API  Environment {#env-http-api}
- `DK_HTTP_LISTEN`: Support the installation-stage specified DataKit HTTP service binding network card (default `localhost`)
- `DK_HTTP_PORT`: Support specifying the port of the DataKit HTTP service binding during installation (default `9529`)
- `DK_RUM_ORIGIN_IP_HEADER`: RUM-specific
- `DK_DISABLE_404PAGE`: Disable the DataKit 404 page (commonly used when deploying DataKit RUM on the public network. Such as `True`/`False`)
- `DK_INSTALL_IPDB`: Specify the IP library at installation time (currently only `iploc` and `geolite2` is supported)
- `DK_UPGRADE_IP_WHITELIST`: Starting from Datakit [1.5.9](changelog.md#cl-1.5.9), we can upgrade Datakit by access remote http API. This environment variable is used to set the IP whitelist of clients that can be accessed remotely(multiple IPs could be separated by commas `,`). Access outside the whitelist will be denied (default not restricted).
- `DK_HTTP_PUBLIC_APIS`: Specify which Datakit HTTP APIs can be accessed by remote, generally config combined with RUM input，support from Datakit [1.9.2](changelog.md#cl-1.9.2).

### On DCA  {#env-dca}
- `DK_DCA_ENABLE`: Support DCA service to be turned on during installation (not turned on by default)
- `DK_DCA_LISTEN`: Support custom configuration of DCA service listening addresses and ports during installation (default `0.0.0.0:9531`）
- `DK_DCA_WHITE_LIST`: Support setup of DCA service access whitelist, multiple whitelists split (e.g. `192.168.0.1/24,10.10.0.1/24`)

### On External Collector  {#env-external-inputs}
- `DK_INSTALL_EXTERNALS`: Used to install external collectors not packaged with DataKit

### On Confd Configuration  {#env-connfd}

| Environment Variable Name                 | Type   | Applicable Scenario            | Description     | Sample Value |
| ----                     | ----   | ----               | ----     | ---- |
| DK_CONFD_BACKEND        | string |  All              | Backend Source Type  | `etcdv3`, `zookeeper`, `redis` or `consul` |
| DK_CONFD_BASIC_AUTH     | string | `etcdv3`, `consul` | Optional      | |
| DK_CONFD_CLIENT_CA_KEYS | string | `etcdv3`, `consul` | Optional      | |
| DK_CONFD_CLIENT_CERT    | string | `etcdv3`, `consul` | Optional      | |
| DK_CONFD_CLIENT_KEY     | string | `etcdv3`, `consul` or `redis` | Optional      | |
| DK_CONFD_BACKEND_NODES  | string |  All              | Backend Source Address | `[IP地址:2379,IP address 2:2379]` |
| DK_CONFD_PASSWORD       | string | `etcdv3`, `consul` | Optional      |  |
| DK_CONFD_SCHEME         | string | `etcdv3`, `consul` | Optional      |  |
| DK_CONFD_SEPARATOR      | string | `redis`            | Optional default 0 |  |
| DK_CONFD_USERNAME       | string | `etcdv3`, `consul` | Optional      |  |

### On Git Configuration {#env-gitrepo}

- `DK_GIT_URL`: The remote git repo address for managing configuration files. (e.g. `http://username:password@github.com/username/repository.git`）
- `DK_GIT_KEY_PATH`: The full path of the local PrivateKey. (e.g.  `/Users/username/.ssh/id_rsa`）
- `DK_GIT_KEY_PW`: The password to use the local PrivateKey. (e.g.  `passwd`）
- `DK_GIT_BRANCH`: Specify the branch to pull. <stong>If it is empty, it is the default</strong>, and the default is the remotely specified main branch, which is usually `master`.
- `DK_GIT_INTERVAL`: The interval of the timed pull. (e.g. `1m`)

### On Sinker Configuration {#env-sink}

`DK_SINKER_GLOBAL_CUSTOMER_KEYS` used to setup sinker tag/field keys, here is the example: 

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD046 -->
=== "Linux/macOS"

    ```shell
{{ InstallCmd 4 (.WithPlatform "unix") (.WithEnvs "DK_SINKER_GLOBAL_CUSTOMER_KEYS" "key1,key2" ) (.WithEnvs "DK_DATAWAY_ENABLE_SINKER" "on" ) }}
    ```

=== "Windows"

    ```powershell
{{ InstallCmd 4 (.WithPlatform "windows") (.WithEnvs "DK_SINKER_GLOBAL_CUSTOMER_KEYS" "key1,key2" ) (.WithEnvs "DK_DATAWAY_ENABLE_SINKER" "on" ) }}
    ```
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

### On Resource Limit Configuration {#env-cgroup}

Only Linux and Windows ([:octicons-tag-24: Version-1.15.0](changelog.md#cl-1.15.0)) operating system are supported.

- `DK_LIMIT_DISABLED`: Turn off Resource limit function (on by default)
- `DK_LIMIT_CPUMAX`: Maximum CPU power, default 30.0
- `DK_LIMIT_MEMMAX`: Limit memory (including swap), default 4096 (4GB)

### Other Installation Options {#env-others}

- `DK_INSTALL_ONLY`: Install only, not run
- `DK_HOSTNAME`: Support custom configuration hostname during installation
- `DK_UPGRADE`: Upgrade to the latest version (Note: Once this option is turned on, all other options except `DK_UPGRADE_MANAGER` are invalid)
- `DK_UPGRADE_MANAGER`: Whether we upgrade the **Remote Upgrade Service** when upgrading Datakit, it's used in conjunction with `DK_UPGRADE`, supported start from [1.5.9](changelog.md#cl-1.5.9)
- `DK_INSTALLER_BASE_URL`: You can choose the installation script for different environments, default to `https://static.guance.com/datakit`
- `DK_PROXY_TYPE`: Proxy type. The options are: "datakit" or "nginx", both lowercase
- `DK_NGINX_IP`: Proxy server IP address (only need to fill in IP but not port). With the highest priority, this is mutually exclusive with the above "HTTP_PROXY" and "HTTPS_PROXY" and will override both.
- `DK_INSTALL_LOG`: Set the setup log path, default to *install.log* in the current directory, if set to `stdout`, output to the command line terminal.
- `HTTPS_PROXY`: Installed through the Datakit agent
- `DK_INSTALL_RUM_SYMBOL_TOOLS` Install source map tools for RUM, support from Datakit [1.9.2](changelog.md#cl-1.9.2).

## FAQ {#faq}

### :material-chat-question: How to Deal with the Unfriendly Host Name {#bad-hostname}

Because DataKit uses Hostname as the basis for data concatenation, in some cases, some host names are not very friendly, such as  `iZbp141ahn....`, but for some reasons, these host names cannot be modified, which brings some troubles to use. In DataKit, this unfriendly host name can be overwritten in the main configuration.

In `datakit.conf`, modify the following configuration and the DataKit will read `ENV_HOSTNAME` to overwrite the current real hostname:

```toml
[environments]
	ENV_HOSTNAME = "your-fake-hostname-for-datakit"
```

> Note: If a host has collected data for a period of time, after changing the host name, the historical data will no longer be associated with the new host name. Changing the host name is equivalent to adding a brand-new host.

### :material-chat-question: Issue on macOS installation {#mac-failed}

If it appears during the installation/upgrade process when installing on macOS:

```shell
"launchctl" failed with stderr: /Library/LaunchDaemons/cn.dataflux.datakit.plist: Service is disabled
# or
"launchctl" failed with stderr: /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.guance.datakit.plist: Service is disabled
```

Execute:

```shell
sudo launchctl enable system/datakit
```

Then execute the following command:

```shell
sudo launchctl load -w /Library/LaunchDaemons/cn.dataflux.datakit.plist
# or
sudo launchctl load -w /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.guance.datakit.plist
```

## :material-chat-question: More Readings {#more-reading}

- [Getting started with DataKit](datakit-service-how-to.md)
